This is what leaving Gaza looks like
driving through the dust and debris.
16 health care workers
finally evacuating the Gaza
European Hospital,
a journey many outside Gaza haven't seen
and most inside are unable to make.
Among them Doctor Adam Hamhuis, a U.S.
combat surgeon and humanitarian,
first responder.
He recently chose to stay behind
when an initial evacuation
was only offered to U.S.
citizens.
This is the first wave.
Another one usually starts around 2 a.m..
These are the conditions
Hamoudi and his colleagues worked under.
They just wait
until everyone really falls asleep
and then they try to wake you up again.
He wrote a letter to President Biden
saying he had never witnessed, quote,
the level of atrocities
and targeting of medical colleagues
as he had in Gaza,
urging the president
to allow a humanitarian corridor
to be established
and for his colleagues and himself
to be allowed to evacuate.
Days later, the team were on their way.
Our farewell was marked
with many tears on both sides.
We gave them everything we had, like
we left really with the the,
the clothes we were wearing
and in a small backpack.
But even then they were giving us
little gifts to remember them by.
And and, with promises that now
we will come back
and we will continue to help them
and and, we won't forget.
You do want to go back, right?
All of us want to go back.
There are people who are not able
to leave like
the Palestinians themselves.
And we can't forget them.
The local level.
And while getting permission
was one thing,
making the treacherous
journey was another.
It was very dystopian.
The way it happened.
Everything was through instructions,
by phone, with very choppy, service.
everything I believe was was observed,
through to the, overhead drones to come
It took us about three hours to do that
15 minute drive
that normally takes to get the word out.
It was a level of destruction
I had not seen before.
It was.
There was nothing left standing.
the the unusual part
which was really like I said, it was like
out of a science fiction movie.
You know, once you left the gate
and when we were driving to Israel,
was that that crossing,
it was a completely another world.
It was I went from what I just described
to driving through California.
It was like that place didn't exist.